add cellprofiler option to idrstream (#6)
WayScience/IDR_stream: README.md

BaSiCPy is the python implementation of the BaSiC method for illumination correction, introduced in [Peng, T et al., 2020](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-59722-1_17).
- [CellPose](https://github.com/mouseland/cellpose) is used to segment nuclei from mitosis movies.
CellPose was first introduced in [Stringer, C., Wang, T., Michaelos, M. et al., 2020](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-020-01018-x).

> - [DeepProfiler](https://github.com/cytomining/DeepProfiler) is an option to extract deep learning features from mitosis movies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DeepProfiler](https://github.com/cytomining/DeepProfiler) can be used to extract deep learning features from mitosis movies. 
```

Just for consistent language.

Author: :+1:

> - [CellProfiler](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler) can be used for segmentation and feature extraction from mitosis movies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CellProfiler](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler) can be used for segmentation and traditional feature extraction from mitosis movies. 
```

Author: :+1:

> - [CellProfiler](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler) is an option for segmentation and feature extraction from mitosis movies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CellProfiler](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler) can be used for segmentation and traditional feature extraction from mitosis movies. 
```

Not sure the "traditional" is necessary but want to emphasize the difference between DP and CP

Author: :+1:

The larger the batch size, the faster a stream will complete (DP will not need to be initialized as often).
However, a larger batch size also corresponds to more intermediate files and more memory being allocated at once by DP (step 3) and PyCytominer (step 4).

**For CellProfiler Project:**

4) Initialize cp_metadata.

> The CellProfiler metadata compiler needs to be initalized as to convert the `data_to_process.tsv` into a `.csv` file for CellProfiler to intake the metadata.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CellProfiler metadata compiler needs to be initialized as to convert the `data_to_process.tsv` into a `.csv` file for CellProfiler to intake the metadata.
```

Author: :+1:

> The CellProfiler metadata compiler needs to be initialized as to convert the `data_to_process.tsv` into a `.csv` file for CellProfiler to intake the metadata.

Reviewer: I think this more accurately encompasses what is demonstrated in `example_cp.ipynb` but correct me if I'm wrong.
```suggestion
`idrstream.CellProfilerRun().convert_tsv_to_csv()` needs to be used to initialize metadata for CellProfiler use.
Check [example_cp.ipynb](example_notebooks/example_cp.ipynb) for more info.
```

Author: :+1: simpler and to the point! Added.

Save `index.csv` file in DP project (step 2.5).
5) Profile all images in batch with DeepProfiler.
Features from this DP run are saved in DP project (step 3).
6) Compile DP features from a batch and associate the metadata with features.
Compiled features with metadata are saved to the final data directory (step 4).
7) Delete all intermediate files from batch run and run next batch!

The process for a **CP project** are as follows:
1) Download a movie to temporary directory.
2) Find desired frame(s) and perform illumination correction.
Save desired frame(s) in CP project.
3) Run CellProfiler processing (segmentation and feature extraction).
CellProfiler will load the images, segment them using CellProfiler Cellpose plugin, and run feature extraction.
CellProfiler will output multiple `.csv` file (e.g. Experiment, Image, and Nuclei), but only `Nuclei.csv` contains the features and the metadata that was generated from the `init_cp_metadata` function.
4) Compile CP features from a batch 

> Compile CP features in a proper order and remove irrelevent metadata from the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compile CP features in a proper order and remove irrelevant metadata from the file.
```

Author: :+1:

Save `index.csv` file in DP project (step 2.5).
5) Profile all images in batch with DeepProfiler.
Features from this DP run are saved in DP project (step 3).
6) Compile DP features from a batch and associate the metadata with features.
Compiled features with metadata are saved to the final data directory (step 4).
7) Delete all intermediate files from batch run and run next batch!

The process for a **CP project** are as follows:
1) Download a movie to temporary directory.
2) Find desired frame(s) and perform illumination correction.
Save desired frame(s) in CP project.
3) Run CellProfiler processing (segmentation and feature extraction).
CellProfiler will load the images, segment them using CellProfiler Cellpose plugin, and run feature extraction.
CellProfiler will output multiple `.csv` file (e.g. Experiment, Image, and Nuclei), but only `Nuclei.csv` contains the features and the metadata that was generated from the `init_cp_metadata` function.
4) Compile CP features from a batch 
Compile CP features in a proper order and remove irrelevant metadata from the file.
5) Delete all intermediate files from batch run and run next batch!

> **Note:** Do not run both CP and DP projects at the same time due to both utilizing Cellpose and GPU (can not use GPU with two different runs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Do not run more than one instance of an `idrstream` at once! Doing so will cause issues with multiple instances of CellPose trying to utilize the same GPU resources.
```

Author: :+1: Much more technical, it is added.

For mitosis movie frames, we give PyBaSiC 2 frames before/after the desired frame (depending on position in movie) to perform illumination correction.
We discuss different methods of illumination correction in [#1](https://github.com/WayScience/IDR_stream/issues/1).

### Fiji:

Download [Fiji](https://imagej.net/software/fiji/downloads) using the appropriate file for your OS.

> We recommend putting the `Fiji.app` file that comes from the install on your Desktop or in a place that you can easily find the path to.

Reviewer 2: Is `Fiji.app` MacOS-specific? If so, consider rewriting this statement to make it OS-agnostic.

Author: It is from Linux. I am assuming it is the same on MacOS (e.g called Fiji as the app). But I can clarify this.

### CellProfiler:

CellProfiler will be used for both segmentation and feature extraction.
For segmentation, we recommend using the Cellpose plugin for CellProfiler for projects centered around nuclei. 
Cellpose and CellProfiler are already installed from source within the conda environment from the `Necessary Packages` section.

To run the CellProfiler Cellpose plugin, the steps are as follows:

#### Step 1: Clone CellProfiler Github

We recommend putting it into a folder on your Desktop called `GitHub` for better organization and tracking of the repo.

```console
# Make sure to `cd` into the directory that you want the repo in (e.g. \~/Desktop/Github)

> git clone https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler.git

Reviewer: Does this mean CellProfiler gets installed into a different folder than `IDR_stream`? If so this might be bad...

For example, when we have to use PyBaSiC and DeepProfiler we install those **within** the cloned `IDR_stream/` folder.
I am pretty sure if you clone `IDR_stream/` into `/Desktop/Github` then cd into `/Desktop/Github` and use `git clone` this will put `CellProfiler` into `/Desktop/Github`, not into `/Desktop/Github/IDR_stream`.
Maybe you meant to say the user should cd into `/Desktop/Github/IDR_stream`?

Reviewer: I am reading a bit further into the README now and think I might have a better idea of how this setup works.

Is the user setting up CP for general use (and installing into `/Desktop/Github/`) and then we utilize the general use CP installation for `IDR_stream`?
Even so, I get a little worried about putting stuff related to `IDR_stream` outside of `/Desktop/Github/IDR_stream` but you can judge if that needs to change.

Author: Yes to the second part. But it isn't really fully setup, its mainly just putting the repo somewhere and then being able to put the plugin into the repo for Cellprofiler to reference. We can discuss this on Friday regarding where it is best to put it. It is kinda like for Fiji where the user installs it on their computer not into IDR_stream directly.

Reviewer: Ahh that's a good point. Let's discuss Friday.

```

#### Step 2: Download and install Cellpose plugin

Download the `runcellpose.py` file from the [CellProfiler-Plugins repository](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-plugins/blob/master/runcellpose.py) and then move it into the CellProfiler repo (specifically the plugins folder within the modules folder).
To download the plugin file into the correct folder, use the code below in terminal.

```console
# Download the cellpose plugin to the plugins directory
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-plugins/21454fe331a5a62ae34ff1b2bbf128aa16873fb0/runcellpose.py  --directory-prefix CellProfiler/cellprofiler/modules/plugins
```

#### Step 3a: Activate the CellProfiler GUI

Open the CellProfiler GUI by using:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```

Author: :+1:

# Make sure you have already activated the `idrstream` environment
cellprofiler
```

#### 3b: Change the path in the `Preferences` tab

Go to "File -> Preferences". 

> From there, you can change the `CellProfiler plugins directory` to the path that you put the Cellpose plugin in (e.g. /home/jenna/Desktop/Github/CellProfiler/cellprofiler/modules/plugins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, you can change the `CellProfiler plugins directory` to the path that you put the Cellpose plugin in (e.g. ~/Desktop/Github/CellProfiler/cellprofiler/modules/plugins).
```

Author: :+1:

For mitosis movie frames, we give PyBaSiC 2 frames before/after the desired frame (depending on position in movie) to perform illumination correction.
We discuss different methods of illumination correction in [#1](https://github.com/WayScience/IDR_stream/issues/1).

# CellProfiler Project Setup:

CellProfiler will be used for both segmentation and feature extraction.
For segmentation, we recommend using the Cellpose plugin for CellProfiler for projects centered around nuclei. 
Cellpose and CellProfiler are already installed from source within the conda environment from the `Necessary Packages` section.

To run the CellProfiler Cellpose plugin, the steps are as follows:

#### Step 1: Clone CellProfiler Github

We recommend putting it into a folder on your Desktop called `GitHub` for better organization and tracking of the repo.

```console

> # Make sure to `cd` into the directory that you want the repo in (e.g. \~/Desktop/Github)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Make sure to `cd` into the directory that you want the repo in (e.g. ~/Desktop/Github)
```
I don't think the backslash is necessary for this absolute path.

Author: Agreed, don't know why it is there lol. Fixed!

git clone https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler.git
```

#### Step 2: Download and install Cellpose plugin

Download the `runcellpose.py` file from the [CellProfiler-Plugins repository](https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-plugins/blob/master/runcellpose.py) and then move it into the CellProfiler repo (specifically the plugins folder within the modules folder).
To download the plugin file into the correct folder, use the code below in terminal.

```console
# Download the cellpose plugin to the plugins directory
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-plugins/21454fe331a5a62ae34ff1b2bbf128aa16873fb0/runcellpose.py  --directory-prefix CellProfiler/cellprofiler/modules/plugins
```

#### Step 3a: Activate the CellProfiler GUI

Open the CellProfiler GUI by using:

```console

> # Make sure you have already activated the `idrstream` environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Activate the `idrstream_cp` environment
conda activate idrstream_cp
```

Author: :+1:

> cellprofiler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Open CellProfiler GUI
cellprofiler
```

Author: :+1:

cd idrstream/
git clone https://github.com/cytomining/DeepProfiler.git
cd DeepProfiler/
# make sure that the conda environment `idrstream_dp` is activated
pip install -e .
```

## Example Usage

> Example usage of `idrstream` can be found at [example_dp.ipynb](example_dp.ipynb) and [example_cp.ipynb](example_cp.ipynb).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example usage of `idrstream` can be found at [example_dp.ipynb](example_notebooks/example_dp.ipynb) and [example_cp.ipynb](example_notebooks/example_cp.ipynb).
```

Author: :+1:

> We ran this notebook as a python script ([example_dp.py](example_dp.py) and [example_cp.py](example_cp.py)) and hence the notebook has no output for the final cell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The converted python scripts for these notebooks and their logs can be found at [example_scripts](example_notebooks/example_scripts) and [example_logs](example_notebooks/example_logs) respectively.
```

Author: :+1:

> **Note**: You can use `idrstream` to extract object oulines as extra metadata by passing `extra_metadata=["object_outlines"]` during `idrstream.run_stream()`.

Reviewer: Just want to note there that this is not true for this PR. However, I think this note should be left because the plan is to add this functionality in the next PR.

Author: True, I agree to just leave it.
